---
title: 'Math Test'
date: 2018-08-20
permalink: /posts/2018/08/math_test/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---
Learning about derivatives in Calculus I, I was really questioning why the power rule ‘worked’. Why is 

$$\frac{d}{dx}(x^3) = 3x^2$$?

 Why do we multiply by 3?  In other words, why is 

$$\frac{d}{dx}x^n = nx^{n-1}$$?

To answer this question let's start off with the most easiest derivative to find: one of a straight line -

$$y = \color{orange}m\color{black}x + b$$

The derivative is obviously $\color{orange}m$, as that’s the slope of the line at all points. We learned that in middle school! It makes sense, as the ‘$\frac{dy}{dx}$’ is defined as rate of change in $y$ over rate of change of $x$. For every time $x$ increases by 1, $y$ increases by m. In other words, for

$$ y = 2x + 3$$

The rate of change of $y$ relative to $x$ is 2. We can see this using this chart:

| *x* | *y*  | Change in *x* from previous     | change in *y* from previous    |
|---|----|-------------|--------------|
| 1 | 5  | (initial value) | (initial value) |
| 2 | 7  |              +1 |  +2 |
| 3 | 9  |               +1|  +2|
| 4 | 11 | 1            +1|  +2|


* We know $y$ increases by two for every increase in $x$ by one. This is because $x$’s coefficient is 2. Increasing $x$ from 3 to 4 brought us from having three 2’s to having four 2’s. (Going back to second grade, multiplication is just how many times you add something!)

* Generalizing this, We can say derivative of a linear functions $f(x)$ is just the coefficient of $x$, or $\color{orange} m$.

However, this doesn’t tell us how to find the derivative of a power two or greater. Lets use our previous example of $x^3$, and naively and **incorrectly** apply our ‘coefficient rule’.

$$\frac{d}{dx} (x^3) = \frac{d}{dx} (x \cdot x \cdot x) = \frac{d}{dx} (\color{orange}x^2 \cdot \color{black}x) $$

$$ = x^2$$

So our derivative would seemingly be $\color{orange} x^2$, as that's our coefficient of $x$.

We know that's not correct, and the derivative of $x^3$ is actually $3x^2$. Why? It’s because we’re not increasing one $x$ by one, but instead we’re increasing every $x$ by one. We have three $x$’s, and each of their coefficients are $x^2$ (the other two $x$’s).

In other words, we have

$$ f(x) = \color{red} x \color{black} \cdot \color{green} x \color{black} \cdot \color{blue} x$$

When we increase $\color{red} x$ by one, we have an additional ‘$\color{green} x \color{blue} x$’ for the same way we had one more additional ‘2’ in our linear equation 2.

However, we are increasing all $x$’s in $f(x)$ by one, not just $\color{red} x$. The coefficients of $\color{green} x$ is $\color{red}x \color{blue} x$. Likewise, the coefficients of $\color{blue} x$ is $\color{red} x \color{green} x$

Because we are increasing ***every*** $x$ by one, for every increase in x, we increase $f(x)$ by

$$ \color{green} x \color{blue} x \color{black} + \color{red}x \color{blue} x \color{black} + \color{red} x \color{green} x $$
 


